---
layout: post
title: Chapter 8   Unspeakable Tragedy
date: 2014-05-22 17:55
author: sandy
comments: true
categories: [Stories]
---
Florence was working in the garden and Mr. Harris (as she always called him) was watching Leeo playing in the shade when she looked up and saw Pa walking slowly up the lane.  She dropped the hoe and ran to meet him, stopping short when she saw the tears running down his cheeks  just before he gave her that big bear hug.  “Oh, Daught, the most terrible thing has happened.”  Her heart stopped cold…what could it be?  Pa went on to tell her that  those “no good” Dyson  brothers had gone over to Callie and Ben’s place and dragged him outside and beat him, then shot him dead with Callie watching.  One of the brothers had held her back and not even let her go to him as he lay dying.  “Just pure jealousy and meanness” Pa kept repeating.  Pa said that since it was a woman’s word against three men, the sheriff accepted Cole’s story that Ben had pulled the gun on them and they were just defending themselves.  “No, no, no!’ Florence screamed and cried.  Mr. Harris took Leeo and walked out to the field to find Andrew.  They all sat in stunned silence for hours.  Florence had first said, “I’ve got to get to Callie.”  “No, Daught, she’s already caught the train with Ben’s body to take him back to his folks to bury him.”  With all the tragedy that had visited Florence in her lifetime, none had seemed like meanness – just events of life that no man controls.  Her mind could not wrap itself around this kind of violence.  “Pa, was Low…..”  “No, Daught,  praise God,  Lizzie and Low and their babies are still in Arkansas.  I don’t think I could ever stand to look that man in the eye again, son-in-law or no son-in-law if he were involved in this!”  He told her that it was James, Boyd and Cole that were involved.  James had pulled the trigger.  Callie told him to get his affairs in order because when she came back from Tennessee she was going to kill him.  He just laughed in her face.  “Daught, I hope you can talk to her when she gets back – before she does something stupid!”    Andrew and Florence were both in shock.  They had both loved the couple like family.  It was just unthinkable!  They both tucked Leeo into bed that night and Florence tried to pray … for Callie…. For Ben… for herself and Leeo and Andrew and Pa….. She just felt so inadequate to deal with something like this.  She had prepared stepmothers and their babies for burial, but nothing had felt like THIS!  She felt the urgency to talk with another woman about her feelings.  The men in her life all depended on HER to be strong and she felt so weak!
       Pa stayed to visit for a few more days, but it didn’t bring the joy to Florence that it usually did.  A few days later they took their new buggy into town to get a few necessities.  While Andrew and Mr. Harris went to the barber’s and dry goods store (for Andrew to buy Florence yardage of blue fabric like he did almost every time he went to the store his whole life!)  Florence and Leeo walked over to visit with her friend, Eugie.  Eugie was several years older than Florence and they had met by accident earlier that year while waiting at the telegraph office, and struck up a conversation that turned into a friendship.  Florence visited her each time she was in town and Eugie and her husband came by every so often.  Today she really needed to pour her heart out to Eugie about Callie and all that had happened.  Eugie cried with her and then said, “Florence, have you prayed about this?”  Florence said, “ I tried, but I don’t even know how!”  Florence went on to tell the older woman that although Pa had all kinds of sayings and “proverbs” about life, they had never been religious people.  The only Bible she’d ever seen was her Mother’s that she remembered seeing in her hands as they buried her all those years before.  “Eugie, how can there be a God when these kind of things happen?”  That question was really a fork in the road of Florence’s life.  She didn’t realize it then.  But she was about to go in a direction that would influence not only her, but generations to come, and is still influencing the writer and her children and grandchildren!


