---
layout: post
title: Chapter one   "beginnings"
date: 2014-02-27 16:44
author: sandy
comments: true
categories: [Stories]
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---
Adella Florence was born to Lemuel and Martha in the tiny town of Fernbank, Alabama.  The year was 1885 and they were a poor family, so she was born at home with just the help of a grandmother.  Having never heard of “pre-natal” care, her mother struggled to regain her health in the months following the birth.  There had been miscarriages before, and would be others to come.  Lemuel had lost his first wife in childbirth a few years before marrying Martha.   

Florence  was the firstborn and the apple of her parents’ eyes – especially her father’s who called her “Daught”, the loving nickname that he used his whole life.  Life was hard.  Lemuel did a little farming.  Since they lived in the “big pineys” of Alabama, he also cut down and sold trees for lumber…or whatever he could to support his young family.  

<!--more-->
A younger brother, Elijah(“Lige),  came along 3 years later, and Florence adored him!  The little family had a very normal home for the time.  Everyone struggled, so they never felt disadvantaged.  Tragedy struck a terrible blow when Martha died in the birth of a baby sister.    The baby died a few days later.  Grandma  Smith came to help take care of the 6 and three year olds left behind, but she died a mere 6 months later from “a stomach ailment”.  Suddenly Florence, at 6, became the homemaker, caring for “Lige” and her father.  According to him, she did a terrific job, but  she felt scared and alone much of the time.
She remembered in later years, watching her father leave with his axe for the woods, and crying most of the day while she worked, because she was so afraid he wouldn’t return.  One day, he forgot something and came back home.  Catching her sobbing, he asked what was the matter.  She didn’t want him to think she was weak, so she blurted out “Lige hit me”.    Lemuel started taking off his belt…”where is he?  I’ll give him what for!”  
Florence immediately started  backpeddling…”Oh,  Pa, he didn’t mean to hurt me, it was an accident”  “It doesn’t matter, he has to learn how to treat his sister!” Father declared.  Finally, she confessed the real reason for her tears.  Lemuel smiled as he hugged her.  “I knew he hadn’t hurt you, I just wanted you to tell me the truth.   Lyin’ gives you mouth sores!   Daught, you’ve got to trust me that I will ALWAYS come back.  You can always count on me! ”  
Pa  remarried a few months later.  Life returned to a normal pattern.  It didn’t take long to think of this woman as mother.  She was kind and loving to the two small children and a terrific cook!  It was so good to have a woman in the home again, for all three of them!  Soon, there was going to be a baby.  Florence could hardly wait.  She remembered how much fun it had been when Lige was a baby.  Finally one night, Father woke her up “I’ve got to go for the doctor, the baby is coming.  You go sit with Sarie until I get back.    Florence hurried into the room.  She didn’t know what to expect, never being at a “birthing” before, but Sarie did not look good.  The pain was obvious from the dark circles under her eyes and deep groves on her forehead.  “Sarie, can I help?”, Florence ventured.  “Sure, sweetheart, just sit here with me and hold my hand.”  It seemed like days before Pa returned with the doctor….and it was almost daylight.  They sent her back into the other room with Lige.  They waited outside, anxious for the sound of new life in the next room.  They waited, and waited, and….it never came.  The doctor and Pa  came out of the room slowly.  The doctor’s arm was draped over Father’s shoulder in a comforting sort of gesture and he said “I’m so sorry, Lemuel, there was just nothing I could do, or anyone out here in these woods for that matter.  The baby was just too big and just couldn’t be birthed in a backwater like this!   Do you want me to take them to the undertaker for you?”  Pa shook his head without speaking.  “Them?  He said ‘Them’” Florence couldn’t  understand what he was saying.  She looked questioningly up at him.  “Daught,” his voice broke before he went on, “we lost them both.”  He sat down and sobbed.  It was the first time she had seen  her father cry.

coming next "more changes"
