---
layout: post
title: Chapter 10  Sorrow Upon Sorrow
date: 2014-06-03 15:54
author: sandy
comments: true
categories: [Stories]
---

<em><em>I’ve read somewhere that<strong> “life is what happens to you while you’re making plans”.</strong>  Florence and Andrew really never made plans.  That just really wasn’t the way that average people thought in the early 1900’s!  They just lived day to day, working hard and being content with “making a living”.</em>  </em>

There seemed to be a lot of sickness that winter.  Florence was never really “healthy” it seemed.  Looking back from the 21st Century, I’m sure she suffered from anemia at the very least.  She was about 5’4” and probably never weighed more that 110 in her life – unless she was “with child”!  Leeo was a healthy, plump child and Florence and Andrew were not overly concerned when he “took a cold”.  He kept a cough for several days,then it took a bad turn into what was called “croup”.  He couldn’t sleep in his bed because he couldn’t breathe lying down.  Florence would sit in the rocker with him all night so that the precious little boy could catch his breath between coughs.  They tried all the usual treatments of the time, but little Leeo lost his battle to breathe.  Any of the three adults in the home would’ve gladly given their breath for his and the mourning was almost unbearable!  Andrew had never lost anyone close to him and was really in denial for several days.  His father was totally bereft.  Leeo and Mr. Harris shared a special bond – the “old man” who’d felt useless until he looked into the eyes of his first grandchild.   The precious little boy  saw love and approval everywhere he looked!  Florence was never able to describe the pain she felt.  In fact, of all the events of her life, this was the one that she could never discuss – with Andrew, her father, Eugie, or even 50 years later with me.  She could never even bring herself to say his name to me, all those years later when we’d be lying in bed with her recounting her life to me.  And even now that I’m a mother and grandmother, I cannot begin to understand her pain.  She had survived so many losses, but nothing had prepared her for this.  Friends and family have all said that they feared for her sanity.  Eugie told me once that what worried her was that Grandma never cried – at least in front of anyone.  She began the lifelong characteristic of being stoic during pain – both physical and emotional.  Many people thought this was her Cherokee blood.  In looking back on her life, I think a little bit of her heart went “into hiding” on the day that she buried her firstborn.  She really rarely smiled after that day until much later in life (we’ll get to that later!).  She looked in photos a lot like the “American Gothic” woman – stiff, sour and hard.  Of course, nothing could be further from the truth.

Mr. Harris never really recovered from the blow of Leeo’s loss, and a few months later they laid him next to Leeo under an oak tree in the Davis  Cemetary.  Florence had really adored Mr. Harris, but her pain was too great to help him with his, and Andrew just still seemed to be “coasting” through life.  He decided that they needed to move away from the area were there had been so much pain.  He packed up and moved Florence to Coleman where his mother and her two youngest children  were living with her second husband that she’d married about 5 years before.  Florence really struggled with being too far away from Leeo’s grave to properly tend it.  She said later that she really thinks she came close to “losing her mind” the loss was so great.  But she soon realized that she was again “with child”.  Mary Leeola was was born to the couple healthy and strong.  They overcame their initial fear of loving too much lest they lose her, too.  She didn’t replace Leeo, but brought joy and hope to the home once again!  

Shortly after “Mary Lee’s” birth, Mrs. Wood found a letter her husband had written and left for her just before leaving for town for supplies.  She could not believe the words as she read 

<em>“Dear Liz,  This is the second hardest thing I’ve ever done in my life.  I have been living a lie with you.  I thought I could forget the past and think only of a future with you, but my conscience will not leave me alone.  I am so sorry for the wrong I have done you and your family.  I will not ask for forgiveness, for I fear that there is none due me!  I am not the man you think I am.  Our marriage is bigamy on my part as I have a family back in Georgia.  I left my wife and 4 children fifteen years ago when I realized I was about to go broke.  I couldn’t face the shame then…so I just walked away.  I know I am doing the same thing to you, but I feel I have to go back and “face the music” there and try to make some amends for what I did.  You are a fine woman, but too trusting.  Please do more checking next time.  I never meant you any harm, but someone might!  You will never hear from me again so please try to put me out of your mind.  You have 3 good sons and two good daughters who will see to your needs as I could no longer do. I’m signing no name here, because the name you knew me by is not real either” </em>

Andrew’s mother was shocked, to say the least.  They all were!  Mr. Wood had been so good to all of them.  None of them ever suspected that he was living a lie.  He had been spare when it came to giving them details about his life before he moved to the territories.  He said once that his wife and child had died in a measles epidemic and it was too painful to talk about.  They’d accepted that.

Mrs. Wood (as she insisted on being called the rest of her life)  said, “well he shouldn’t have wasted his breath about “next time” for there’ll be no next time!!”   

