---
layout: post
title: Chapter 11       Oklahoma  Justice
date: 2014-06-09 21:01
author: sandy
comments: true
categories: [Stories]
---
The little Harris family moved further north to the Blanchard area where Andrew’s brother, Frank, was living at the time.   Most of the extended family had moved to that area of the state. Even Lizzie and Low and their two children had moved back to Chickasha.  Callie was staying with them until she got on her feet.  Ben’s parents had given her some money for a fresh start, since her brothers and the sheriff had sold off Ben’s store and their home while she was gone.  Florence was so hurt to see the cold look in Callie’s eyes – not mean, just blank.  The spark was gone.  She just seemed to be going through the motions of living.  Florence tried to talk with her about her threats against James, but Callie just brushed her off.  “Don’t ask me to forgive them, I can’t.  But, I won’t go looking for a fight, I promise you!”   Callie was looking into buying a boarding house in Norman with the money she had and running it.  She asked Florence to ride the train over with her to look it over, but Florence was expecting again and just didn’t feel up to a train ride during these early months.

      Andrew worked at odd jobs until the local banker offered him the opportunity to buy a farm that had been homesteaded about 2 miles from town.  He signed the contract in which he agreed to pay $2/month for the farm and live on the property until it was paid for.  Andrew was really not a farmer, but he and Florence worked hard.  Pa came to visit and, at their urging, moved in with the family and helped all he could.  It especially helped when little Dezmer  was born!  A two year old and a new baby made it hard for her to work in the field beside Andrew.  Everyone she loved was now very close by!




Callie had bought her boarding house and was settling down into the routine of cooking and doing laundry for her boarders.  She had a house full, too!  She had been running the place for several weeks now and when she visited Florence, a little of the “old” Callie could be seen.  But that was about to end.

One day, Callie was shopping in a dry goods store in Norman when she saw James across the stacks of yard goods for the first time since that awful day Ben died.  Her heart started pounding…. She almost went blind with the fury that overcame her.  She reached in her purse and put her hand on the gun that she carried everywhere with her.  He had seen her, too.  It was obvious the way he pointedly ignored her until he was just a few feet from where she stood rooted to the floor.  He looked up then, feigned surprise and smirked.  “Well, if it isn’t my baby sister, looking down her nose at me just like always!”  Callie said, “I have to look down to keep my eye on something as low as you are, you murdering coward!”  “Why, Callie, that sounds like a threat to me!  What was it you said before you ran off to Tennessee to lick your wounds?  Let’s see. Oh yes, I’d better set my affairs in order.  Well, mine are.  How about yours?”  And with that he raised  the gun he’d been holding down below the level of the yard goods.  Callie didn’t even remember firing her gun.  She apparently unloaded the 6 shot revolver in his direction! James  fired off a shot as he fell,  mortally wounded, but it missed her.  The storekeeper came from the back, then ran out front screaming for help.  Callie just sat down on the floor and waited until the sheriff came in and took  her away and charged her with attempted murder.  They carried James to the hospital where he lingered a few weeks before dying, then  Callie was charged with first degree murder!  

The trial was certainly the talk of the town all around the area!  Callie’s lawyer had lined up a long list of character witnesses.  He was rather inexperienced, but he believed in her self-defense story.  In fact, he had more than enough witnesses who would testify was a lowlife James was!  Florence just kept saying to herself that justice would be done….wouldn’t  it?  She wanted to believe in the system.  But the “system” had found that James was not guilty of anything when he killed Ben in cold blood then stole all his property!  Florence and Andrew were on the witness list for the defense,  but they could be in the trial if they so wished.   Andrew’s brother,  Frank, and his wife came over and took the children home with them to Chickasha because they knew how important it was for them to support Callie.

When the trial began, it looked bad.  Even Low and Lizzie seemed to be against her.  Callie didn’t seem to care one way or the other.  Her lawyer was struggling to get her to help him fight for her life.  Finally the two brothers who had helped James kill Ben took the stand and told complete lies about Ben and Callie and all that had taken place down in Sawyer, smirking and pointing at “that woman” and talking about how they provoked and made fun of the rest of her family.  Refused to help even her own father when he needed it.  On and on they each went.  Andrew said later, “I have to give it to them, both of them getting their stories so much alike when neither one can read or write!”  But, Florence noticed a change in Callie during their testimony.  The dazed slump  gave way to a straight posture and eyes sparkling at the lies.  She made several whispered comments to her lawyer, which he furiously wrote down.  She was ready to fight for her future!

Those who saw Andrew testify said that  the prosecutor got him a bit flustered and confused.  Andrew was so guileless himself that he was shocked that a public servant would treat him, an honest citizen, like an enemy!  But they all agreed that Florence’s stoic nature served her well.  She  told about the young Ben and Callie.  How good they were.  How they’d “stood up” at her own wedding and been kind and helpful even to Callie’s brothers and father.  She told about the bruises and other signs of abuse on Callie before she married, but how Ben had treated her so well.  The lawyer said, “in closing, Mrs. Harris, how would you describe Callie’s brothers?”  Well, my Pa, who knew them a lot better than me always said I should stay away from them.  They were a bunch of thieves and whoremongers!  And I’ve never seen anything to make me think he was wrong!”  The crowd erupted and the judged pounded his gavel for silence.


